Our course is completely devoted to programming, but in this lesson, let's see how you can
quickly design and customize your own level, and at the end of the lesson I will show
new maps that were essentially made using this method. Create an empty new level. In the scene
we have the default static mesh of the floor. Let's remove the level that can be designed with BSP
geometry - this is a powerful and simple mechanism for prototyping maps. Drag the
box to the viewport and slightly resize it. Let's also add a cone to the scene additionally.
Each geometry has its own set of settings that can be edited. Materials can also
be added to the BSP geometry . Drag and drop any material. Moreover, you can add your own material
to each of the sides of the box . In the details panel, for example, we can move the texture, change the UV coordinates.
This is done in the Pan section. We can also change the rotation, for example, 45 degrees.
We can change the scale of the texture, change the U and V values ​​in the corresponding property. Click on apply.
Thus, with the help of elementary BSP blocks, we will be able to design our level.
Before packing, we will need to convert all BSP geometries to static mesh.
The BSP is resource intensive enough for the final build to convert the BSP to a static mesh
in the details panel there is a corresponding button called creates static mesh.
Select the directory where we want to save the static mesh and click on the create static mesh button.
BSP geometry was automatically replaced with static mesh actor.
Also, we have grouped materials. We changed only two faces with you, and all the rest
will be with the world grid material by default. In world settings, we will indicate our main game mode.
Let's add some PlayerStart to the scene.
We have four players by default. Let's add 4 PlayerStart.
Click play. All players fail because the created static mesh has no collision.
At the same time, the BSP geometry has a collision by default. Let's see how to fix this.
Open the static mesh we created. There is a collision item in the main menu, with which we can automatically
create one of the presented collisions. The box simplified collision suits us. A green box has appeared
around our mesh, which represents a collision and if we press play, the characters
do not fall through. A collision has been added. By default, it is blocking for all channels.
After we have converted all the geometry to static mesh, we need to calculate all the light in the scene.
It is necessary to add a special volume to the scene, which is called the light mass inportance volume.
It defines the boundaries within which static light will be read. We will not go into details,
we can imagine that this is necessary for us to calculate all the shadows on the scene from static light sources.
All such shadows will be baked into the texture. We will see how it looks in just a couple of minutes.
We increase the boundaries of this volume. Approximately so that all objects in the scene hit it.
The static mesh has a parameter that affects the resolution of the baked textures.
It is called light map resolution. The lower this value, the lower the resolution of the baked textures.
Let's put 16 for the test and, in order to calculate the final light on the scene,
in the toolbar, in the build category, select light quality - the quality of the light rendering
and click on build light only in the menu. The UE launches a separate process to render the light.
In the windows firewall, click allow access and wait until the whole world is counted.
A warning has been added to the message log. Object has overlapping UVs. Our auto-generated static mesh
has two UV channels. Through the menu, we can see how they look. In the zero channel there are intersections, but in the first channel there are
no intersections. For the correct rendering of the light, it is necessary
that the UVs have no intersections. The default is UV channel with index zero.
In the details panel, we can change the corresponding property and set it to one. Build the light again.
So, the light was counted.
Now we can see the shadow of the cone. It doesn't look very neat. It has this quality because of
our light map resolution setting. Let's set the property to 1024 and count the light again.
The light was counted, the shadow looked much better.
Also in the UE there are global light settings. They are located in world settings.
The category is called ight mass. When you hover over the parameters, you can read the tooltips.
You need to be careful with these parameters. If you change some of them, the rendering time of the light can increase significantly.
For our new cards, I have set values ​​different from the default. Let's keep the current level.
Let's open one of the new maps, which we will look at a little later.
Copy completely the light mass settings values ​​from this level.
We paste them into the light settings in our level.
And after that we start the final rendering of the light. Thus, using BSP geometry,
we can quickly make level prototypes and now we will see this with you.
I have created 3 levels. The first one is called DeathLevel. Let's open it up.
It looks like this. The geometry is simple enough. The next level is the labyrinth.
This level is slightly larger than the previous and final level called Sanctury.
I made this level based on the shooter game map. This is the largest level in terms of size of all three.
For each of the three levels, I have created a corresponding game mode.
Each of them has different game settings. Game data parameters: different number of players,
round time and also in each level the colors of the teams will differ.
I also updated the preview of the images that we see in the level menu and on the level menu scene I added a static mesh of the
character with Idle animation. Let's get it started. It will look like this. We are playing
3d animation of the character, the pictures have been updated. We can start any of the levels and start playing.
Also, when creating levels, do not forget that you need to add a navigation mesh so that our NPCs can
move and also the Player Start actors should be no less than the players on our map.
We do not programmatically check this with you, so you need to keep this in mind.
Thus, our final project has three maps. Pickups and Player Starts can be placed more neatly, but in a
tutorial project this looks quite acceptable. This concludes with the design of the cards,
but we will add a couple more settings. Go to project settings. On the left in the menu, find the platforms -> windows category.
This category contains platform-specific settings.
We will change the pictures that are used when loading the editor and the actual game. I added a
picture called splash to my images folder . It will be shown when the editor and our game are started.
And also replace the game icon. This image will be displayed in windows in our .exe file.
The picture has the resolution .ico, to convert .jpeg or .png images
to the .ico format, you can use any free service on the Internet.
In the search, just enter "convert jpeg to ico". This concludes this lesson with you.